Add support for builtin_verbose_trap (#79230)
llvm/llvm-project: clang/docs/LanguageExtensions.rst

Query for this feature with ``__has_builtin(__builtin_trap)``.

``__builtin_verbose_trap``
--------------------------

``__builtin_verbose_trap`` causes the program to stop its execution abnormally
and shows a human-readable description of the reason for the termination when a
debugger is attached or in a symbolicated crash log.

**Syntax**:

.. code-block:: c++

    __builtin_verbose_trap(const char *reason)

**Description**

``__builtin_verbose_trap`` is lowered to the ` ``llvm.trap`` <https://llvm.org/docs/LangRef.html#llvm-trap-intrinsic>`_ builtin.

> Additionally, clang emits debug metadata that represents an artificial inline

Reviewer: "metadata" is a clang internal term, of no real meaning to end users, and this page is intended for end users. I think "debugging information" would be better.

frame whose name encodes the string passed to the builtin, prefixed by a "magic"
prefix.

For example, consider the following code:

.. code-block:: c++

    void foo(int* p) {
      if (p == nullptr)
        __builtin_verbose_trap("Argument_must_not_be_null");
    }

> The debug metadata would look as if it were produced for the following code:

Reviewer: "debugging information"

.. code-block:: c++

    __attribute__((always_inline))
    inline void "__llvm_verbose_trap: Argument_must_not_be_null"() {
      __builtin_trap();
    }

    void foo(int* p) {
      if (p == nullptr)
        "__llvm_verbose_trap: Argument_must_not_be_null"();
    }

However, the LLVM IR would not actually contain a call to the artificial

> function — it only exists in the debug metadata.

Reviewer: However, the generated code would not ... in the debugging information.

Reviewer 2: @ahatanak Any follow up?

Query for this feature with ``__has_builtin(__builtin_trap)``.

``__builtin_verbose_trap``
--------------------------

``__builtin_verbose_trap`` causes the program to stop its execution abnormally
and shows a human-readable description of the reason for the termination when a
debugger is attached or in a symbolicated crash log.

**Syntax**:

.. code-block:: c++

    __builtin_verbose_trap(const char *reason)

**Description**

``__builtin_verbose_trap`` is lowered to the ` ``llvm.trap`` <https://llvm.org/docs/LangRef.html#llvm-trap-intrinsic>`_ builtin.
Additionally, clang emits debugging information that represents an artificial
inline frame whose name encodes the string passed to the builtin, prefixed by a

> "magic" prefix.

Reviewer 2: @ahatanak Any follow up?

Query for this feature with ``__has_builtin(__builtin_trap)``.

> ``__builtin_verbose_trap``

Reviewer 2: @ahatanak Is this in the wrong place in the document? `__builtin_verbose_trap` is lexicographically after `__builtin_nondeterministic_value`

Author: It doesn't look like the existing builtins are in lexicographical order. `__builtin_debugtrap` is followed by `__builtin_trap`, which is followed by `__builtin_nondeterministic_value`.

Reviewer 3: Ah, OK - that seems like more reason the prefix should be singular. Like we shouldn't add a new/distinct prefix for array bounds? Or other things we want to error out on - because it'd be an ongoing maintenance problem updating consumers like lldb each time we add one? 

So maybe we should have a generic prefix we'll always use (`__builtin_trap`, say) and then maybe some identifier after that in a known format (eg: space, identifier, space) that can be used? then an error message string?

--------------------------

``__builtin_verbose_trap`` causes the program to stop its execution abnormally
and shows a human-readable description of the reason for the termination when a
debugger is attached or in a symbolicated crash log.

**Syntax**:

.. code-block:: c++

    __builtin_verbose_trap(const char *reason)

**Description**

``__builtin_verbose_trap`` is lowered to the ` ``llvm.trap`` <https://llvm.org/docs/LangRef.html#llvm-trap-intrinsic>`_ builtin.
Additionally, clang emits debugging information that represents an artificial
inline frame whose name encodes the string passed to the builtin, prefixed by a
"magic" prefix.

For example, consider the following code:

.. code-block:: c++

    void foo(int* p) {
      if (p == nullptr)
        __builtin_verbose_trap("Argument must not be null!");
    }

The debugging information would look as if it were produced for the following code:

.. code-block:: c++

    __attribute__((always_inline))
    inline void "__llvm_verbose_trap: Argument must not be null!"() {
      __builtin_trap();
    }

    void foo(int* p) {
      if (p == nullptr)
        "__llvm_verbose_trap: Argument must not be null!"();
    }

> However, the LLVM IR would not actually contain a call to the artificial

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
However, the generated code would not actually contain a call to the artificial
```
